---
slug: EU & UK Cloud
title: Extending our EU/UK Presence
authors: [costlow]
tags: [saas]
---

We're excited to expand our data presence acrosst the world, with our new multi-tenant instances hosted in the EU (Frankfurt) and UK. These instances improve the ways that we can address data privacy and protection requirements for companies in these regions.

These instances serve compliance with GDPR and UK GDPR, so that firms in these regions can use our fully managed SaaS service to detect application vulnerabilities. For complete details on Contrast Security privacy and certifications, please see [Privacy Matters](https://www.contrastsecurity.com/privacy-matters).

Specifically these changes involve the [regions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/Concepts.RegionsAndAvailabilityZones.html) eu-central-1 (Frankfurt), eu-west-2 (London), and eu-west-3 (Paris).

The resilient infrastructure has also established proper failure and recovery procedures within the regulations to enable high availability. Specifically the failover procedures indicate that:

 * London will failover to Dublin
 * Frankfurt will failover to Paris

## How this will impact new customers

New customers within the EU or UK will be provisioned to instances within these regions, simplifying the ability to comply with the privacy regulations.

## How will this impact existing customers

Customers who have selected to run an on-premises infrastructure can consider migrating this data to a hosted Contrast SaaS instance within these regions. Data will be kept within the proper regions, and the migration will remove the need to maintain any on-premises infrastructure. Organizations who select to keep their infrastructure on-premises may continue to do so.